Welcome to the next
week of our course
on [? Peril ?] Functional
Programming with Java.
Previous weeks have explored
the structure and functionality
of the Java Streams
Framework, focusing
on its predefined and
user-defined capabilities
for splitting a data source
into streams of data elements,
applying intermediate operations
to process these elements,
and combining the
processed elements together
into a final reduced result.
This week, we turn our attention
to the SearchStreamGang
Program, which is enhancement
of the Simple Search Stream
Program covered in prior weeks
to implement a powerful text
search engine that uses regular
expressions to find phrases
efficiently in the complete
works of William Shakespeare.
It also defines a framework
for conducting apples
to apples comparisons of
Java's parallelism frameworks,
such as Parallel
Streams, ForkJoinPool,
and CompleteableFutures.
We'll use the SearchStreamGang
Program as a case study
throughout this course to
examine these Java parallelism
frameworks, after first
covering its sequential streams
implementation.
As you'll see later,
only minuscule changes
are needed to transition from
sequential to parallel streams.
We begin by showing how to
implement SearchStreamGang
functionality using conventional
object-oriented Java
features, such as
control constructs,
like [INAUDIBLE] loops and
conditional statements.
Although this
initial solution will
look familiar to
object-oriented programmers,
it has several limitations,
including [? fragile ?]
collection
initialization behaviors
and non-linear control flow.
To address these
limitations, we next
visualize and analyze the
design and implementation
of the sequential streams
variant of SearchStreamGang,
which demonstrates a range of
Java Streams features including
map, flat map,
filter, and collect
aggregate operations, as well
as user-defined spliterators
and advanced collectors,
such as grouping by.
The last set of
lessons this week
evaluate the pros and cons of
applying sequential streams
to the SearchStreamGang
case study.
This evaluation not only
summarizes the benefits
of probing where the
declarative streams paradigm,
but it also motivates the
need for Java parallel
streams that we'll
cover in upcoming weeks.
Finally, we describe
common mistakes programmers
make when applying the
Java Streams Framework
and examine ways to avoid
these traps and pitfalls.